[This section of the log is an imaginary decompilation, or recreation, of a children’s Halloween party in a public park in Romania.]

Bucharest, city of time. 
Floreasca park, Sector 1
Sunday, October 30th 2022
4 o’clock pm. 
Daylight savings time -1 hour
Number of days of the war in Ukraine [2022]: 9 months and 5 days


Lukacs: The novel is the art-form of virile maturity: this means that the completeness of the novel’s world, if seen objectively; is
an imperfection, and if subjectively experienced, it amounts to resignation.

Still, though, the novel is different from real life because the novel paints this "us" a tragic or comic story to inhabit. We are the knights scowering the kingdom for stolen princesses, and outrunning a fated end. Not those things, obviously, but ya know, searching for love or meaning or the solution to a puzzle with the total commitment of one of those chivalric knights. I don't think it's what Frye had in mind, or Lukacs, but the difference to me between Majora's Mask and its predecessor Ocarina of Time, in terms of story, is the same as the modern novel and the romanances from which it sprung. Ocarina is set in the fantasy world of Hyrule, a magical land of twisted forests and dank dungeons and supernatural creatures above and below. Majora's Mask, while replete with characters and settings taken directly from its forebearer, introduced us to Termina, a land below Hyrule, one built by and inhabited by us. Full of agoras and bad actors and frustrations and melancholy and fleeting, passionate, human love stories. 

So if Oot is an epic, then MM is the novel. Still, Majora's Mask is clearly a work of fantasy. The mythology of the four giants, exiled to the four directions, becoming ensorcered by Majora and transformed into villains Link must fight, is not the stuff of 19th century novels. 

Skull kid, under the influence of Majora's Mask, has set the moon on a collision course with Termina, which will destroy the town and everyone living there. This is why Termina is interesting to me. In 2014, when I first came to Bucharest for longer than a holiday, I wrote a short sketch for a piece about a shared, subliminal psychological trauma caused by the city's crumbling buildings, about the sky raining chunks of brick and moldy plaster. 

The supernaturalism serves only as an augmented reality for Romani and her sister, or the Happy Mask Salesman. The reason MM is so beloved by its fans, who've cemented its cult status with meticulous analyses and speculation, is that it's "dark," meaning human. In the escapism genre, especially those seemingly aimed at young children, anything about 

The inhabitants of Termina are not creatures of high fantasty, nor are they there solely to aid Link in his quest. They live in Termina, within the socio-political realities of a non-utopia, and they live under the threat of a moon falling out of the sky and crashing into their homes, an end not a single resident seems to believe they have the slightest ability to change. It's not hard to understand why certain Zelda fans are far more drawn to Majora than to any other Zelda. To see common hardship reflected mimetically in a form typically reserved for escapism is a thrill because it suggests the form capable of mimetically representing all of reality, not just the parts reserved for knights, or, for our times, super heroes. 

To love Majora is to secretely wish for the day when video games reflect mimetically the most difficult and complex human emotions and situations. It is settling where the novel settled, in between Zeus and Hades, between good and evil, in the mediocre and disappointing beauty of everyday human existence.  

Lukacs: Thus, the novel, in contrast to others genres whose existence resides within the finished form, appears as something in process of becoming.

In exploring southwest Termina Link comes across Romani Ranch, a pastoral group of farm houses where Link meets a girl named Romani. Romani and her big sister Cremia run Romani Ranch, which is famous for its cow milk, dubbed "Chateau Romani." Romani asks Link for help defeating the ghostly aliens who have been abducting her cows at night. 
Dressed in her floral tunic and headband, Romani is a Japanese vision of a young Roma woman. She is a horse-whisperer, and in exchange for his heroic aid teaches Link a song to play on his Ocarina that will call his horse Epona to his side. 
On Romani Ranch, Link also meets a large woman with a basket on her head named Mamamu Yan who invites him to place a bet on a dog race. Just saying. 

This side quest in Majora's Mask invites Link to use the Ocarina a few times, both to slow time and to speed it up. 
There is a relationship in this game between childhood and adulthood, of progression to completion, that is sped up by Cremia's gift to Link: the Romani Mask, a cowskin hood. 

On their way out of Romani Ranch, Cremia wonders aloud to Link if the moon is getting closer to them, and if it will crash into them.  
Somewhere in this book there needs to be a detailed analysis of this fucking moon. My god. 
The tumorous nightlight moon.  



Parcul Floreasca, Bucharest 44.46468412049463, 26.097815302027836
Kyiv, Ukraine 50.675799175232946, 30.48919115384774
East Village, New York 40.72655059666746, -73.98181025945813

It's a very narrow triangle. 

[Draw the tilemap, add colliders, program the AI for the NPCs, build character controllers, dialogue systems, run debug.] 

Romani Ranch (actual place name in Majora's Mask)

Romania's code has been written over itself so many times its impossible not to see the remnants of the old commands. 

The park is pleasant, with the remnants of a Soviet-era ice rink that's been converted to a restaurant, multiple playgrounds and playing fields, monuments and outdoor sculptures, and a small outdoor bar called Gin n’ Tonic, with a clean portable toilet available to the public, as there are no public restrooms in Floreasca. The orange streetlamps that line the park’s walkways haunt it, and illuminate the edges of the barely perceptible play places abandoned except for a few groups of teenagers who laugh and vape and set off loud firecrackers that threaten the park's tranquility. 

Floreasca is where I look up through the rhizomatic negative spaces between the branches and the leaves of the trees into the changing sky and think, “All that's left now is to watch the time pass.” I have watched summer days turn orange, blue, brisk and hard. Floreasca is the constant of my life in Bucharest, a place that bridges the gap between Sabina’s life with Raya as a single mother to our co-parenthood, hinged on my first meeting with Raya on this same playground, and our initial masquerades as a new family, painted as they were with a surreal sense of watching ourselves taking turns pushing her in the swing. Sabina occasionally reminds me that there are other parks, and other places to take Raya to play, places that require more ambitious travel plans and are less likely to be perfectly smooth and stress-free. The way she leaned on Floreasca as a single mother is the way I lean on it now, as one knowable, predictable afternoon or evening more than none. 

Can we render the park in pixel art? 
Reference the “map.” 

using System.Collections;
using System.Collections.Generic;
using UnityEngine;
using UnityEngine.UI;

public class Countdown : MonoBehaviour {
    public float timeStart = 60;
    public Text textBox;

	// Use this for initialization
	void Start () {
        textBox.text = timeStart.ToString();
	}
	
	// Update is called once per frame 
	void Update () {
        timeStart -= Time.deltaTime;
        textBox.text = Mathf.Round(timeStart).ToString();
	}
}


Carnival of Time: where residents of Termina celebrate a sort of harvest festival and pray for good fortune. Afraid of the moon. 

War’s sense of time. 

If you think time is a precise science, ask yourself how two months can be equally weighted in terms of a child’s development (14 months old) when months don’t share the same number of days. 

Wonder weeks. It’s a “What to expect” for parents, broken up in stages called “Leaps.”
Leaps are the closest measurements of time to traditional game time systems, which though seemingly faithful to a real time clock, are actually more often based on the character’s progression. Leaps are based on the expected developmental steps of a “normal” child, language, motor skills, but can get as specific as picky eating or tantrums. 

Leap 0: Up to 5 weeks
Leap 1: 5 to 8 weeks
Leap 2: 8 to 12 weeks
Leap 3: 12 to 15 weeks
Leap 4: 15 to 23 weeks
Leap 5: 23-34 weeks
Leap 6: 34-42 weeks
Leap 7:
Leap 8:
Leap 9:
Leap 10

Time based on the development of the human brain. What happens to time when the brain is trying to destroy itself? What is Kathleen’s Leap? What is mine? How long until the moon crashes into Termina? 

One: “What time is it?”
Two: [Holds out leg] “My tibia, give or take.”
One: Thanks. 

[Get a map of Floreasca for Git. Pixelize? Isometrate?] 

The flaw with wonder weeks is that it ends at Leap 10. There is a tacit implication with this that although the brain may continue to develop past this age, its development ends. With a cursory extrapolation of the deceleration of the leaps we find that adults in their 30s and early 40s, roughly the age of the parents at the Halloween party, are most likely somewhere between Leap X and Leap Y. 

For the Romanian children, for whom this approaching moon represents the greatest threat, are largely unaware, excited by the activities. The Ukrainian children all too aware, and though Ukrainian children have been in park for a few weeks now, none have been invited to this gathering, or, perhaps more fairly, none are in attendance. It's hard making real connections to the other parents in the park, no matter your background. These women and, in fewer cases men, are tired, all experiencing new leaps themselves, and stuck between the sun, the moon and their bodies' sense of the hour. 

[Leap X is characterized by introduction of new baby stress to the brain’s chemistry, and the development of those in Leap X is the largest change in behavior...]

But leaps don’t have to stop in infancy. What is the leap of an Andreea? Her husband? The brain is constantly developing, after all. And though the milestones for each leap would be more abstract and difficult to TK, those leaps are there, they exist. 

Programming the AI of these NPCs requires placing them into separate categories and giving them personalized attributes. 
Pokemon statistics: HP, Attack, Defense, Special Attack, Special Defense, Speed

Anton F: Leap 10 
Tina F: Leap 15
Pumpkin size: Unknown //It's possible we took theirs. 
Mother/Father: Y/Y //to both Anton, Tina and mother Andreea’s disappointment. 

Dragos

From Ethan, a member of the ZRET team: "oot has a notable dev who did most of the work on bosses named Morita. he's become infamous in the oot decomp community for having a very particular software design style, which we're able to see in the compiler-generated code that we are reverse-engineering
things like that are just so crazy to me - that we know this guy's coding style based on work he did 25+ years ago, simply from looking at machine code the compiler generated"

Kazuaki Morita: a self-taught programmer who worked on the original Super Mario Bros. and Zelda games. Like Ethan, I too think it's interesting that code could have a brushstroke, so to speak, so that the programmer behind it could be identifiable years later. Morita became famous for programming the bosses for games like Zelda: Majora's Mask, kind of an amazing specialization. If our scene is to have a big bad boss, then we should channel Morita when defining it. 

Position: chatting with a couple of younger parents he seemed to know, and who seemed less visible offput by his general presence as the others. 

Vaguely dangerous, dumb looking, dressed too young, chav/slav-y, too roughly affectionate, too quick to anger, threatening, the relief that if he’s there with his children today, he won’t be tomorrow. Other than scolding his one and a half year old as if the boy was four or five, I’d never seen him do anything cruel, but he puts me off immediately, and begs the question "what is she doing with him" from I can only guess every mother in the park. 

Romanians, like many, have a natural instinct to rationalize and soften the inexplicable shittiness of men, not out of compassion or complicity, but out of an urge to paint reality with an optimistic brush. 

His presence is a reminder to me of M, my big boss, Sabina's ex-boyfriend and Raya's biological father. M has seemingly given up his right to become Dragos in the park, haunting his children with an impermiable plasma of casual cruelty and the threat of violent anger, but his absence has created a presence in my mind that his presence never could. The potential is there, so I can't entirely forget about him. His silence is an assault on the three of us, the way a distant war is. 

Figures like Dragos don’t need to do anything to be experienced, and the threat of action is enough, certainly enough for the parents in the park to tolerate and in some cases, even enjoy him. Kicked his seven year old son for not giving a child her bike back as quickly as dad wanted. 

---

The Carpathian Mountains give those of us on this side a subconscious sense of safety from the fighting due north. Suceava, the northern Romanian city where many refugees from Ukraine first settled after crossing the border, is only 275 miles from Bucharest, but the country's poor roadways and mountainous terrain makes the trip to Suceava by car a nearly seven hour mission.   

More Russian and Ukrainian NPCs each week. Characters who become staples, mothers so alone and deeply overwhelmed that the park serves as a refuge. As a single mother Sabina took the Raya to the park twice daily, sometimes for two or three hours at a time. When we began dating I saw how difficult it was for her to be in the house with Raya, and we were always rushing out the door. In the park the mothers could find solace in the communal pact of children’s playgrounds, could pee without anxiety, still many of the Romanian mothers couldn’t help pointing out that the Ukrainian children were “out of control,” and were often too old and big to be playing on equipment intended for toddlers. The older children weren’t all in school, as many Ukrainian mothers, sons and daughters, especially the wealthier ones, were on their way to stay with friends or relatives farther away from the conflict. 

Even if they can’t explain the differences in words, parents of small children are subliminally conscious of the differences in a child’s cries. 

A girl sobbing on the swing set. She wasn’t a toddler, she must have been Leap Z or so, and her mother was sitting near her on a bench. Her mother scrolled through her phone and occasionally looked up annoyed at her daughter, though she didn’t say anything or seem particularly surprised. The annoyed look was the dried up surface of a face that had been crying for weeks. And hard life and hard strength had taught the mother how to stop crying the way it hadn’t yet taught her daughter. The frustration was one of time, that the terrible reality of their present position, daughter, swing, mother, bench, Bucharest Romania still shattered her daughter every moment it wasn’t occupied by some immediate thing. And for a girl her age, a swing didn’t distract. 

The subliminal effect of being this close to a bloody war, with the refugees, reminders of war’s proximity, playing with your children in the park, children who haven’t known violence like this, and character-rewiring tyranny...

On the Floreasca parents’ Whatsapp a young mother new to the group asked, “Are we meeting at the old time or the new time?” which was almost certainly an awkward “can you believe this weather,” -like interjection but which was met with the silence of thirty women who took the comment as pure idiocy. I took it as an interesting question. 

At a spot in the park far enough from the playground that the party stood a chance of succeeding. Experienced parents parked their strollers far enough away from the action so the adult treats could be enjoyed in hidden peace. 

Code for Andreea:
Andreea as a tall, curly-haired brunette witch running through the field with a collection of pumpkins and spidermen chasing her. Killing time while the remaining snack packs were collectively hidden and the clues could be rolled out to all the children simultaneously. 

Andreea, whose command of motherhood is so effortless and natural as to put younger mothers instantly at ease with the simplest reassurance ie "it's normal, oh mine didn't blank til last month, it's public and nearby and we like it etc." Standing up while breastfeeding and comforting new moms.


EAST

The park is line on its Eastern edge by apartment blocks. On the northeastern end are the new One towers, high-end residential condominiums that are visible all over Northern Bucharest. The price of a penthouse apartment in the One tower, something in the ballpark of 6 million euros, made the local news, and was repeated to me by more than one Romanian when the blue glass towers came into view. Even in this neighborhood, where you're nearly done in by Mercedes and Porsches, it’s hard for Romanians to imagine anyone paying that much money to live in a flat. 

Below One are blocs of flats more familiar to Bucharestian eyes. These blocs are omnipresent in the city, and though the apartments inside are often renovated luxuriously, the outside gives the impression of Soviet-era consolidation and the Ceausescu-era poverty and neglect that scarred their facades and tormented their entrances and gardens. Their uniformity makes them as simple to design and to populate a map with as they were to build. 

Now the outer limits of the map have been drawn.  

The proximity of the Halloween party to the war in Ukraine. An NPC Russian in the park engaged with me on my way out, as he heard me speaking English with my wife. “Where are you from?” he asked. “I am from Russia” he told me, before I could answer him, with an emphasis as close to an apology as possible. It would be possible to program almost every action of this NPC, the hands tucked in the pockets of a members only jacket, the dull push of the hard rubber baby swing, but it would be a lie to code him as the others. There is a thing called Steganography, the hiding of one image (or any file, really) inside another. This happens through a process of encoding an image file's code with the code of another image file. It's a massive problem in the attempt to rid the internet of child pornography, for example, or snuff. Still, it's an interesting mental challenge to image that one image could actually be two without the eye's knowing.  

And if its true that the program code for NPC somehow trips over its own metadata, meaning the stored information somehow leaks out through the AI and changes its actions and responses, then we begin to see how a Russian man in a Romanian park could change the map. 

WEST

At the entrance to the park is a sign that reads “This park is closed for repairs.” It was months into our daily visits to the park before Sabina pointed this out to me. What I had noticed is the disappearance of at least two playground obstacles, and the vague warnings posted in Romanian on certain others. Danger. Play at own risk, type stuff. The equipment itself is...and tortured with graffiti, 

Andreea was one of the mothers who appealed to the local government to fix the damaged and dangerous playground equipment. Wrote a note to the mayor of Sector One, the woman who married us, Clothilde. (Is this true?)

Playground equipment removed, leaving footprints like floor plans, holes in the red and green rubber safety matting. Filled in with sand. A perfect, nearly imperceptible punishment definitively Eastern European. There you go, problem solved...Next time you'll know not to ask...

Even the sand serves multiple purposes, and digs deeper into the pit the park once was. Groapa Floreasca. The area of Floreasca park was once known as Groapa Floreasca, or the Floreasca pit. In 1953, Bucharest was the site of a visit from foreign diplomats (?) and the government scrambled to clean up a city that had languished in ruin since the war. The Floreasca pit, which had become home to groups of poor Roma (the so-called itinerant tribe of Northern Indians that migrated across the desert and into Europe in the Middle Ages, derogatorily known as "gypsies."), was a notable eye sore, a “gypsy slum” as reporters dubbed it, especially in Dorobanti, a neighborhood for the wealthy and powerful elite. In quick fashion the government erected a wall around the entire pit, nearly X acres around, and nearly 2 meters high. This wall served as a temporary solution until 1960, when the Romani families were forcibly removed from Floreasca, the pit filled in and the construction of a new city park began. 

---

The park is lined on its western edge by Strada Radu Beller, a vertical street that runs south into the busy Calea Dorobanti, the main thoroughfare of the Dorobanti neighborhood. This stretch of road is lined with luxury cars and high-end, expensive coffee shops that cater to a wealthy local crowd, mainly businessmen and women, parents mostly, in their thirties and forties. 

Map feature: Ruin on its way. Parents familiar with the park remember the old toys, the Ukranian and Russian mothers arrived recently, and don’t stay long enough to see the park’s evolution towards ruin. Sadly, this ruin is the result of a revitalization attempt, like the old villas of Bucharest, whose haunting presence is preferable to their absence.

A Slav is a Slav...for Romanians proud of being from an "isle of Romans in a sea of Slavs," the distinction is important. Pair that with forty years of Soviet communism, during which Russian language was mandatory in Romanian schools, and you've got a contempt born of deep and understandable suspicion.

The differences between Ukrainian and Russian is virtually impossible to detect for those without a working knowledge of either language, so it is only possible to identify a Ukrainian family from a Russian family by the fathers. Ukrainian men were required to stay behind and fight while their wives and children fled into Poland, Hungary and Romania. Though there has been a slow and steady migration of Ukrainians into Romania since 2014, most of these families fled within the first two months of the war this year. The Russian families fled primarily after Putin established a draft for men under the age of TK, and the threat of war became real for a country that was being fed absurdist lies about its position in the conflict. 

Nothing changes one’s perception of the passing of time like war. The eerie part of Russia’s war with Ukraine is that it has created an ominous visual future for Romanians. Only a ruin can remind you of a moment’s status as the past of some future's future, one that is as unknowable as the present moment is knowable. The presence of Ukrainian children and their mothers in Floreasca Park is subliminal reminder to Romanian parents of the proximity of war, and the threat of some sort of horrible countdown clock to Romania’s own inevitable involvement. It’s hard to code this countdown clock, as its ending is unknown. Ruin is a new country with a new kind of time. See Hyrule after Link's sleep. 
 
It is a clock whose movement for the Romanian trick or treaters is a combination of an increasing number of Ukrainian refugees and Russian emigres, and a decreasing number of playground features, or to simplify, number of conversations held in English to holes dug in the Earth. This people over place, the loss of identity through displacement combined with a reshaping of the physical plane is something that happened to the Roma community nearly eighty years ago. The march towards potential ruin is not a countdown clock but a cyclical one, with the displacement of one people for another, and the filling of holes and the boring in of filled ones the binary opposites who one and zero over and over without end. 

The trick or treaters are the children and grandchildren of the NPCs whose presence along the edges of this map, whose formalized language, signaled to its Roma residents that ruin was close at hand. This is the time behind time, and like Wonder Weeks, a wheel of time that is easy to remain oblivious to. 

English is a default language between Romanians and non-Romanian, and the fidelity level of the English conversations likely to be higher than almost anywhere else in non-English world.  

I close my eyes and see the Halloween party through Raya’s eyes, as though it were my own childhood. The party games function as a series of puzzles through which the annexation of Bucharest to the Russians may be avoided. 

Two of the sand-filled balloons hanging from the tree had been covered in ghost shrouds, drawing several of the older kids out from the pumpkin decorating station. It was certainly the intention to cover all of the balloons in similar costume, but the preparations for the party were hastily done by the mothers who organized the party, all of whom arrived with their children and all of whom are exceptionally productive with kids climbing their stately legs. 

8 human months [10 now] with Sabina and Raya. 
Update: Nearing our one-year anniversary.

