The Longing

As of today, December 5th 2022 11:58PM, the Zelda Reverse Engineering Team has reached %73.6 completion for the decompiled code of The Legend of Zelda: Majora's Mask. This means that our understanding of its code, specifically the code concerning the three day countdown clock and the manipulation of time with the Ocarina, must wait. We are on their timeline, hiding in the the wake of their work. 

This is where The Longing comes in. I was drawn to this game as soon as I heard about its quirky time system. Shade, an underling of a sleeping giant King, must wait in a network of caves until it is time for him to wake said King. You play as the Shade, a pixel art lemming capable of few tasks: mining the caves, decorating your modest underground dwelling and, most importantly, waiting. This is a game about waiting, not only for the character but for the player. The King wakes in 400 days, and save for a few techniques to get this countdown clock moving more quickly, you the player must wait 400 days for the game's end. Yes, these are not only game days but human, real life ones. If you were, for example, to buy the game, play for a day and then turn it off, only to check in with it 398 days later, you would find that you only had one more day to play. If you played every day, you'd feel every, every day. 

The most severe version of the art, here, is softened by this mercy. Here is The Longing's creator, Anselm Pyta, on time: 

"Pyta: I was 22 when I had the first idea and I was 29 when it was released. My feeling for time and existence has definitely changed dramatically. I think the older I get, the more experiences I have, the harder it is to experience real boredom and real despair. In a younger age I was often afraid I could die before finishing my work and leaving a mark on this world. That feeling has left me to some degree, since time puts everything into perspective. Ozymandias! I don't think I have less time to idle than before. I was always working most of my days and I enjoy work more than idling for the most part.

Crucially, there are ways for the Shade to quicken the time. His possible activities are intended to occupy the mind, to keep the mind from becoming nothing more than another clock. Time flies when you're having fun. Shade can have fun. He can decorate, he can explore, and though none of his pastimes change the architecture of the game, they can change the gameplay."

...

The code of Majora's Mask is three quarters of the way to full decompilation, and its decompilation is crucial to my understanding the mechanisms through which Link conquers time. Time, it seems, is asking a price for this information. I personally have no clue how long it takes to decompile %26.4 of the source code for one of the greatest console games of all time. But The Longing has taught me that my waiting does not have to be fruitless or mechanical, that I can occupy my mind to make the time pass faster, and that if I am successful in my tasks, I may speed up not only my perception of the time, but time itself. The ZRET page has a contribution section, and the entire website and Git are, while not geared towards at least tolerant to, amateurs. How can I help? How can the Shade and I help? Would anything we could possibly offer help the team reach %100 ahead of schedule? 

All I've got now is an idea for a cheering section. Morale. That's where we start. 

400 days. Now we wait. Research is a pastime. Here's a bit of code I found on a Reddit thread about The Longing, specifically about how the developers coded a timer that kept ticking away when the game was off. [Credit Redditor.] 

DateTime startOfGame = GetSaveGameStartTime();

TimeSpan t1 = DateTime.Now - startOfGame;

if (t1.TotalDays >= 400)

{

//trigger end game

}

else

{

//keep playing

} 

How many days did I wait to see Sabina and Raya again? At least a hundred. In that time, I made our family money, made Sabina's gold engagement ring, made art and helped other artists realize their exhibitions. I lived in a hotel room in Auburn, Alabama for so long that I knew the staff as casual aquaintances, did my laundry, and ate alone at every restaurant within walking distance. It wasn't only love I was waiting for it was my life, which had stalled for an entire season. In that time I went to Kathleen and Brendan's wedding in Richmond, Virginia. Because of Kathleen's diagnosis it was more than a wedding. The mood was ecstatic and full of love and overwhelmingly sad, and the beauty of the ceremony, of its small size and its location, was almost painful to me. There is a subtext to traditional weddings, an excitement for the future and invulnerability under the cloak of love, that extends past the bride and groom and into everyone attending. It is a party, in the purest sense of the word. This was not that, although song for song, speech for speech, lit arbor for poolside dance, it was as lovely as any of them. Among all of my mawkish well-wishes and "I love you"s, I managed to, at a late hour, convey to them this: that to me, my love for Sabina and her daughter Raya, for our future, was wed inextricably to Kathleen's sense of time, and to her and Brendan's love story. That the force of their actions with each other had swayed ours in tangible, unabstract ways. Kathleen's telling me of her most recent diagnosis coincided with my first few dates with Sabina, and my decision to go head long into marriage with her, into stepfatherhood, was made within Kathleen's time. This is where the idea of T-Empathy came from. The notion that my time is subject to others was done one better: I was living within a time that I'd seen altered as it passed. Longing makes the day. 
