My stepdad, Mike, who taught English literature at Columbia University for 30 odd years, and actually taught me while he was there, was once explaining to me, in the course of a nice conversation on what makes a novel, that, according to Northrup Frye (Lukacs, he corrected me, is where the idea first generated) the novel was, unlike epic verse, about its time. What I remember was his describing the novel as a chivlaric romance but instead of a knight, the protagonist was an ordinary person. Someone of the modern world with a social caste and the kind of problems that affect people who don't lead heroic or tragic lives. Us, essentially, what separates the novel from the epic is that novels are about us. 

Lukacs: The novel is the art-form of virile maturity: this means that the completeness of the novel’s world, if seen objectively; is
an imperfection, and if subjectively experienced, it amounts to resignation.

Still, though, the novel is different from real life because the novel paints this "us" a tragic or comic story to inhabit. We are the knights scowering the kingdom for stolen princesses, or outrunning a fated end or whatever. Not those things, obviously, but ya know, searching for love or meaning or the solution to a puzzle with the total commitment of one of those chivalric knights. I don't think it's what Frye had in mind, or Lukacs, but the difference to me between Majora's Mask and its predecessor Ocarina of Time, in terms of story, is the same as the modern novel and the romanances from which it sprung. Ocarina is set in the fantasy world of Hyrule, a magical land of twisted forests and dank dungeons and supernatural creatures above and below. Majora's Mask, while replete with characters and settings taken directly from its forebearer, introduced us to Termina, a land below Hyrule, one built by and inhabited by us. Full of agoras and bad actors and frustrations and melancholy and fleeting, passionate, human love stories. 

Majora's Mask is still, clearly, a work of fantasy. The mythology of the four giants, exiled to the four directions, becoming ensorcered by Majora and transformed into villains Link must fight, is not the stuff of 19th century novels. 

Skull kid, under the influence of Majora's Mask, has set the moon on a collision course with Termina, which will destroy the town and everyone living there. This is why Termina is interesting to me. In 2014, when I first came to Bucharest for longer than a holiday, I wrote a short sketch for a piece about a shared, subliminal psychological trauma caused by the city's crumbling buildings. The sky is raining chunks of brick and plaster. 

So if Oot is an epic, then MM is the novel. The supernaturalism serves only as an augmented reality for Romani and her sister, or the Happy Mask Salesman. The reason MM is so beloved by its fans, who've cemented its cult status with meticulous analyses and speculation, is that it's "dark," meaning human. In the escapism genre, especially those seemingly aimed at young children, anything about 

The inhabitants of Termina are not creatures of high fantasty, nor are they there solely to aid Link in his quest. They live in Termina, within the socio-political realities of a non-utopia, and they live under the threat of a moon falling out of the sky and crashing into their homes, an end not a single resident seems to believe they have the slightest ability to change. It's not hard to understand why certain Zelda fans are far more drawn to Majora than to any other Zelda. To see common hardship reflected mimetically in a form typically reserved for escapism is a thrill because it suggests the form capable of mimetically representing all of reality, not just the parts reserved for knights, or, for our times, super heroes. 

To love Majora is to secretely wish for the day when video games reflect mimetically the most difficult and complex human emotions and situations. It is settling where the novel settled, in between Zeus and Hades, between good and evil, in the mediocre and disappointing beauty of everyday human existence.  

Lukacs: Thus, the novel, in contrast to others genres whose existence resides within the finished form, appears as something in process of becoming.
