// Bucharest, Romania December 3rd 2022 01:09AM
Glenlivet 12

This is an entry on my relationship to time. Starting backwards. It is my responsibility to look through the tree tops and into the cold sky on days when the pace of fatherhood and partnership overwhelms me. I didn't get the acceleration time that most father's get. I jumped in when Raya was twenty months old, a toddler, and managing a relationship and bonding with a small child would have been a challenge to me even in the most traditional family setting. I look through the trees as I reminder to mark time. It calms me down and reminds me of this project. This project is like a drink to me, like a dry martini or a beer after Raya goes down. In the park I look up through the trees and feel I can see the earth moving past the sky and it calms me down. 

There's an element of control in the work that I make, this absoluteness to each project that makes me feel like when it's done, I am done. I extend and retract its tenacles, I decide where it goes, and I am its ultimate critic. The satisfaction can be and is amplified by the support and admiration of my loved ones, and of people I respect, but they're really just along for the ride. I control what they'll feel, or at least I think I do enough not to worry about it. Ursula, Maiastra, Kathleen's Game, they're all repositories. This Git thing kinda gits me, ya know what I mean? Writing in spaces meant for code is satisfying because it's wrong on one level, but I have a sneaking suspicion that on another level, it makes perfect sense. Language is language, after all, and all language is meant to be compiled in one engine or another. More and more, I'll learn what's possible on this platform. For starters, it will be easier to copy the code I need into this format than to copy and paste into a word document. The code's format is more important than the prose's, so we move prose over here. Makes sense to me. 

Code, and I think most internet communication, is meant for shorter bursts of information with more space in between. I don't have a problem with this, you have to have respect for the form, but I don't think it's too much for people to read longer form prose on a Git. Devlogs exist. I know I should read through a few before I go to much further with this one. But the form is so interesting to me. It's not about the writing, although this might be naive, but about soliciting help and promoting your game. With this is mind, if I'm gonna steal the form, and the platform, then I want it to be for the people I'm stealing from. This, all of this Git stuff, and the itch.io stuff, it's still based on the idea of code, and this should speak to that code, it's potential for abstraction. This, what I'm writing right now, is technically code, just one long comment. Amazing what two /'s will do. The fraud, the poser's found a loophole. 

Sabina's sleeping in the bed behind me. I have my headphones on and I'm writing a diary entry into a code whatdoyoucallit this is something I definitely fantasized about once or twice in my life. That longing for someone else to share the unconcious moments with. I thought I'd be done with art once I found a family, once the whole thing wasn't so inextricably tied to my lifestyle and my sense of myself. Truth is, though I'm a little more practical about my future, and probably making some decisions I wouldn't have were money not the pressing concern it is, I feel much more productive these days. Thank god for gradi (pre-school). I have this memory of being a kid and watching my stepdad through the door crack as he was working on a computer in his office. He caught me once, I must have been making noise, and yelled at me to go back to bed. Later on, he mused to me once about how he wrote at night, these small, respectable academic (or baseball) books that orbited closely to his scholarly practice and his teaching. I can totally see catching Raya watching me write one night and both a. being sweet about it and getting her to bed or b. snapping at her, if it's been an ongoing problem. Why was I watching him? I remember doing it more than once. Only the one time getting caught, but I did it a lot I think. I can probably count on one hand the number of times I fell asleep before my brother Mick, so I had this little life between bedtime and sleep that now that I'm thinking about it I used in a few different ways. Now I'm so tired all the time I sleep pretty easily, but for most of my life I've been like this. There's a routine there, a process I need before drifting off. All this is to say that my looking through the tree tops in Floreasca park, or Kisileff, is the same little thing as staring at my stepfather's back backlit by a primitive monitor. It's my little time to think. 

Just now I thought how good it feels to write this way, and how close it feels to how I actually think, as opposed to the Word document voice I sometimes use (pompous? smug?) and it reminded me of the Eva Hesse diary I brought with me to Romania (one of like, ten things, fewer maybe) and that I read aloud in my creative writing seminar (also very cool to say). Hers, I have to say, sometimes feels super diaryish, like she knew how the brevity and poetry would be read. Still, it's amazing to read a real voice in art, like, one that feels human and not particularly concerned with the "distance," if you know what I mean. It's crazy that I began writing about a New York artist in her mid 30's battling a brain tumor (Kathleen) and forgot entirely that one of my favorite artists died of a brain tumor when she was 34. What I'd like for this book, and hopefully not at the expense of some reader enjoyability, though that will certainly be a small pool of people, is to have all of these references stacked up on one another, not like bricks but like shingles. Gently inserted underneath or on top of specific references with special relationships. So Eva and Kathleen, Majora's moon and a tumor and a war in Ukraine and disappearing playground equipment and the lives of these decomp devs. 
