Void filled with rows of rotating, growing polyhedrons. Each shape has a private orbit. Kathleen able to walk through and choose like clothes. 

Braid: Reverse time
Superhot: Time moves when you do
Etc. 

T-Symmetry
Rhizomatic vs. Arborescent 
Rhizomatic time? Time that grows open-endedly, without central structure and is constantly changing. 

TK tried to prove that time is “baked” into the universe, meaning that it is a physical property of space, like gravity, instead of a human measurement. Gravity, as an example, is the same backwards and forwards. They looked at the theoretical principle of entropy, one of the laws of thermodynamics (???) and found what they thought to be a good way to prove that time, at least in terms of its direction, is indeed a truth of the universe. Particles move from low entropy systems to high entropy systems, nature favors chaos, and never move in the other direction. To get practical, the big bang, the high entropy system scientists still believe formed our conception of the universe, couldn’t reverse itself, and all the stars, planets, consciousnesses and cosmic dust aren’t coming back. 

This theory held for years, until the field of statistics forced scientists to prove at a purely mathematical level concepts that, in a general sense, had been understood to be true for hundreds of years. And while there is little evidence for particles flagrantly bucking their nature and moving to lower entropy states from higher ones, not only is it statistically possible it is statistically inevitable. 

Hope doesn’t need the odds on its side. 

Imagine all those shapes floating in the void...

Theory: Raya’s shape ball. To understand...take the six shapes generating new forms over and over in front of her. What if they were free to move through space along their own private orbits, free from gravitational forces etc. They may collide with one or another...

Now imagine a giant ball, more than capable of swallowing all the polyhedrons with room to space, floating out there in the void. Each polyhedron tracks its own trajectory, and its form is evolving constantly, though without a constant acceleration. Then for each polyhedron floating in space there is a corresponding hole in the skin of this giant floating ball. It is both extremely unlikely that all of the protean polyhedrons with float through their corresponding hole at exact the precise moment as the others, with exactly the correct trajectory (assuming space is curved and objects are capable of revisiting past coordinates) and with exactly the correct rhizomatic shape for its randomly generating hole, and inevitable. That’s infinity for ya. Infinity is what makes time reversal symmetry possible: a long enough timeline for the impossible things to become mandatory. 

I know Kathleen through John B. one of my best friends, and a mentor to me. Kathleen and John dated briefly before Kathleen met Brendan, and John met Ariel, and the relationship had a deep effect on both K and J. It’s possible that both were still in love with each other when beginning their current relationships, both of which exceeded this one in power almost immediately. 

“What is the relationship between shape, the system of time it represents and its private orbit?”

Aspect Astrology. Tri-locating a moment, like a 3D printer. 

Aspect astrology is a geometric time, which reminds us each year of the same time last year but a repeating physical alignment of elements whose mass and speed are so imperceptible to our instruments as to seem constant. Our time is similarly connected to the sun, but aspect creates more data. 

John’s relationship to his past in the context of his brain is interesting to me. Whether a part of his character or simply trained in through a decade of arts education, John’s ability to infuse dead objects with deep, eternal meaning...Past loves were retroactively imbued with such extraordinary meaning that on more than one occasion on recalling his past relationships I confused months for years, and what amounted at the time to fond ambivalence and a platonic handshake agreement on the way out the door for Shakespearean, RNA-altering love loss. John is at his best and most unreliable when talking about the women of his past, and his descriptions of his relationship to Kathleen, one that would color this woman in my mind to this day, did not disabuse me of this notion, as people say. This was helped of course by the fact that months after their relationship ended Kathleen was diagnosed with brain cancer, and any nagging rejection pains were replaced by an unbelievable sense of pride in being important, the way people become important at the end, to someone so special. ...An NPC whose circumstances had made them into the unimpeachable main character of the story, and yourself into a secondary one, a supporting one. 

Robert Longo 
I Do Fly / After Summer Merrily
@ Pace Gallery, September 2021

Do a thoughtful review of the show. 

Reflective polyhedron “acts as the exhibition’s omniscient eye.”
Does more than that, simply put it connects it in time to Durer’s day. 

Eva Hesse diary entries, mapped along some relevant thread of Kathleen’s. The bar at Hauser and Wirth, the sleepy early evening hours of a city I’d already come to associate with Kathleen and Brendan, despite living there for thirty years. The switch from coffee to beer. Drunkenly buying Eva Hesse’s diary because it was expensive. 

You’re going to need somewhere to read this devlog. We need books, computers, tables and chairs, games. 

Code for polyhedrons? What does the world of game engines think of these shapes? TO DO: Take a look at the Unity asset store for shape packages. Self-generating? Ai? 

John taught me about the polyhedron in Albrecht Durer’s Melencolia I (1514)
 We went gallery hopping in Chelsea on one of my short trips to New York to visit my dad. Pace Gallery was exhibiting a show by Robert Longo, a collection of large-scale charcoal drawings of the Black Lives Matter protests that had taken place across the country only months before. In the center of the room sat a large, highly-polished steel shape, a polyhedron I would learn, whose mirrored facets reflected the black and grey works that hung on the walls around it with fidelity. Nothing about this show interested me on first walk-thru I admit. These images were so omnipresent by that point, and their reproduction in a mega gallery by a white artist felt less controversial than lame. Similarly, the shape 

Boredom – Chemo, being stuck in the house (Covid), feeling ill, afraid, slipping off the “track” of achievement. Boredom is a symptom of time. 

Polyhedrons like planets experience their own private orbits, and their relationships to one another stabilize time’s subjectivity by hinging it on multiple points. 
