
Lunar calendar

Azimuth

"The 1st-century poet Manilius described the Moon, or Luna, as melancholic."

Durer's Melencolia actually about the moon. Majora's Mask moon face wickedness and inevitibility. 

"In modern astrology, the Moon is the primary native ruler of the fourth house, but traditionally it had its joy in the third house."

Astrology used to be a communal exercise. Horoscopes were based on the month of your birth, on your zodiac creature, and the attributes of that particular creature were manipulated to a modern understanding of human life 

There is nothing gentle or feminine about Majora's moon. It's face is so terrifying it's one of the most iconic images from the Zelda series. YouTube is filled with thesis videos on the meaning of the moon's grimacing face. No moon in any other Zelda has a face, let alone such an ominous one. Debates rage about whether the moon is real or just a figment of the clocktown's imagination, a hex placed by Majora. If the moon is real, is it aware of the damage its about to cause Termina? The moon cries, valuable space rocks, are these tears signs of remorse? Maybe the face is one of terror itself. Assumedly Termina won't be the only victim of the moon's collision. 

How old is Majora's moon? What leap? 

If you're one of twelve, then you share an indelible connection to one twelvth of the human population, roughly, I think some zodiac months are shorter than others. Once rising signs were introduced as a overlay, that connection is exponentially thinner. Now you're two signs, and the personality measures are able to take a more focused position on you and your day, week or month. You may find money, so may many others, but you may also lose love, and the number of those rich, lonely October souls dwindles. Choose between being special or being a part of something. 

Macro time is universal, but the smaller the measure of time, the more personal, indvidual it is. The time of the Gauls becomes post-9/11 becomes a child's first leaps. Time is only time when it is shared. 

