// Dear Kathleen,

On the 26th of November 2021, the Zelda Reverse Engineering Team, or ZRET, successfully completed a full decompilation of Nintendo's The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time, and shared their work with the community. Decomplilation, in video gaming code terms, is the process of rewriting the proprietary code of a game by replicating through trial and error the functions of the game, step by step, scene by scene, pixel by color pixel. These undertakings, decompilations are preservative by nature, and the developers responsible are keen to point out that their efforts aren’t a backdoor or way of replicating and distributing free-of-charge a classic game, nor are they are intended for commercial purposes of any kind...C code that, when compiled, faithfully rendered the original version of the 1998 game, designed by the Japanese firm Nintendo for its Nintendo 64 console.

ZRET, like many intentional internet communities, is not a “team,” or workforce, in the corporate sense, but rather a collection of like-minded individuals, in this case gamers, coders and developers, who practice an active appreciation for the games of their youths. 

Oot is only one of the Zelda games whose code ZRET has been actively attempting to reproduce, but it is most certainly the jewel in the community’s crown. 

Ocarina of Time, or Oot as it’s notated, is regarded as one the greatest video games of all time, with its successor Zelda: Breath of the Wild as its main competitor for the title. These games tend to be exceptions to the notions that video games are not art, not great literary achievements. They also buck the notion that while games may gain nostalgic value as they age, they are naturally eclipsed by newer games with their superior graphics, bigger budgets and the general technological improvement of the field. It is not a stretch, however, to think that Breath of the Wild, in story, gameplay, even graphics, is every bit as good as the best games being produced today, five years later. Ocarina, while certainly primitive in comparison, still offers gamers the kind of challenges and experiential pleasures that feel as contemporary now as they did then. These two Zelda games are ”protected,” so to speak, meaning that they are passed from generation to generation entirely free of the threat of becoming lost in history. There is no conversation about art in video games without them, and the group of individuals committed to their exaltation only grows as time goes on. Decompiling Oot, while a strange pastime for those unfamiliar with the world of online game worship, is as close to a universally understood milestone in the gaming community as could be, and by no means the strangest thing gamers get up to on reddit. It is possible, then, to imagine the ZRET team as “distinguished,” if still nerdy, and Fig02, whom the group describes as a “notable” member and project lead, as one of those taciturn theorists who push their lesser-brained colleagues over the threshold of an algorithm for anti-matter or Time Reversal Symmetry. 

Story of the developers themselves. Fig etc. 

Like any city, the internet is a sprawling and variant place, and for all its menacing, dignity-stripping scamming and abuse, it is softened by communities like this one, with the considered support given by its members to other devs struggling with complex, conceptual puzzles often without the hope of gain. The currency system is an exchange of prior satisfaction, intellectual commiseration or both. 

The more niche the space, it feels to me, the more supportive the community, and the more wary of and punishing to bad agents. In this furtive landscape a collective consciousness grows, one designed for the completion of a common goal. The answer to why someone would undertake this task is that they do, the way art has never needed more than viewers, or experimental contemporary dance attendees, for example, to justify its worth. Spectacle, and the earnest pursuit of collaborative, non-destructive fun, these will never fail to find an audience, whether under a proscenium arch or in the deep reaches of a video game subreddit. ZRET’s Oot Decomp exists because time is not limited enough to keep an ever-growing number of curious people from exploring life’s every crevice. Put it down there, and someone will go get it. 

Oot was the first Zelda to be rendered in three dimensions, adding dimensionality to a game already known for its experimental dimensional structuring (the original Zelda for NES was one of the first console game to use the top down/isometric layout to imitate the feeling of depth in two dimensions. This was a revolution from the traditional side scrolling platforming of Super Mario Bros., for example.) Pair this compounded dimensionality with the forested fantasy worlding of the game (and the most beautiful soundtrack in video game history) and you have the kind of “cozy” interactivity that video games have been attempting to reproduce ever since. 

But what made Oot such a hit was its unique time function, the ability to travel between two different periods in time, one in a distant past, the other the present. The game’s main character, Link, finds himself inadvertently responsible for the ruin of his glorious home world Hyrule. In order to set things right Link must travel back...

To the Lighthouse by Virginia Woolf (1927) 

If you still believe code to be an expression of mathematical “truth,” and not a language designed by and for artisans, here’s an interesting fact for you. It is possible than two separate versions of the decompilation could exist, written in different commands, functions imagined differently etc. that, when compiled, created identical versions of the same game. And that though there are certainly consistencies, and certain functions impossible to reimagine, it is possible that a practically infinite amount of Ocarina of Time decompilations could exist. 

What ZRET managed to achieve is an act of nostalgic love. The love is baked into the seemingly fruitless dedication to replicate its object, stronger and more potent than declarations, most of which would simply be replications of similarly impotent declarations of love. When asked why, one user (name) wrote, “It’s like painting a sunset...or I forgot TKTK.” 

This is how game programmers feel about Zelda, with a childlike intensity and devotion unheard of in visual art, and comparable only to music, with film and literature being distant, distant medalists. It is an active love, manifested in the actions of the body rather than in intellectual sentiment, and registered publicly to fellow lovers.

And by presenting to the public free of cost an open-source version of a classic, ZRET encouraged a generation of developers to continue their journeys into game development by modifying a masterpiece. The inadvertent, or perhaps covertly advertent, consequence of Fig02’s final function was control of Oot’s specific time system. Time travel in reality is a fantasy, one consistently debunked by physicists, most of whom freely admit that many of the “fantasies” of science fiction, interstellar travel, holograms etc. are actually perfectly feasible. Philosophically, however, the idea of modifying the functions of a game made twenty-five years earlier is a form of time travel. 
